- OWASP - Open Web Application Security Project
#### OWASP principles
  - **Minimize attack surface area**: Attack surface refers to all the potential vulnerabilities a threat actor could exploit.
  - **Principle of least privilege**: Users have the least amount of access required to perform their everyday tasks.
  - **Defense in depth**: Organizations should have varying security controls that mitigate risks and threats.
  - **Separation of duties**: Critical actions should rely on multiple people, each of whom follow the principle of least privilege. 
  - **Keep security simple**: Avoid unnecessarily complicated solutions. Complexity makes security difficult. 
  - **Fix security issues correctly**: When security incidents occur, identify the root cause, contain the impact, identify vulnerabilities, and conduct tests to ensure that remediation is successful.

#### Additional OWASP security principles

- Establish secure defaults
- Fail securely
- Don’t trust services
- Avoid security by obscurity

### Security audits
- review of org's security controls
- two types: external audit & internal audit

- purpose of internal security audits
  - identify org's risk
  - assess controls
  - correct compliance issues

- common elements of internal audits
  - establishing the scope and goals of the audit
  - conducting a risk assessment of the organization's assets
  - completing a controls assessment
  - assessing compliance
  - communicating results to stakeholders

=======================================================================

#### Audit checklist
It’s necessary to create an audit checklist before conducting an audit. A checklist is generally made up of the following areas of focus:

- Identify the scope of the audit
  - The audit should:
    - List assets that will be assessed (e.g., firewalls are configured correctly, PII is secure, physical assets are locked, etc.) 
    - Note how the audit will help the organization achieve its desired goals
    - Indicate how often an audit should be performed
    - Include an evaluation of organizational policies, protocols, and procedures to make sure they are working as intended and being implemented by employees

- Complete a risk assessment
  - A risk assessment is used to evaluate identified organizational risks related to budget, controls, internal processes, and external standards (i.e., regulations).

- Conduct the audit
  - When conducting an internal audit, you will assess the security of the identified assets listed in the audit scope.

- Create a mitigation plan
  - A mitigation plan is a strategy established to lower the level of risk and potential costs, penalties, or other issues that can negatively affect the organization’s security posture. 

- Communicate results to stakeholders
  - The end result of this process is providing a detailed report of findings, suggested improvements needed to lower the organization's level of risk, and compliance regulations and standards the organization needs to adhere to. 
