Python uses indentation to control loops, functions, statements , etc. Python uses the colon symbol (:) and indentation for showing where blocks of code will begin.

```python
def my_function(): # This is a function definition. Note the colon (:)
 a = 2 # This line belongs to the function because it's indented
 return a # This line also belongs to the same function
print(my_function()) # This line is OUTSIDE the function block
```

Blocks that contain exactly one single-line statement may be put on the same line, though this form is generally not
considered good style.

An empty block causes an IndentationError. Use pass (a command that does nothing) when you have a block with no content:

```python
def will_be_implemented_later():
 pass
```

**always** use 4 spaces for indentation.
Using tabs exclusively is possible but PEP 8, the style guide for Python code, states that spaces are preferred.

Python 3 disallows mixing the use of tabs and spaces for indentation. In such case a compile-time error is generated: `Inconsistent use of tabs and spaces in indentation `and the program will not run. 

The tab character completes the previous indentation to be a multiple of 8 spaces. Since it is common that editors are configured to show tabs as multiple of 4 spaces, this can cause subtle bugs.

Many editors have "tabs to spaces" configuration. When configuring the editor, one should differentiate between
the tab character ('\t') and the Tab key.

It might be helpful to configure the editor so that pressing the Tab key will insert 4 spaces,
instead of inserting a tab character.

