### Built in types
#### Boolean 

A boolean value of either True or False. Logical operations like and, or, not can be performed on booleans.

```python
x or y # if x is False then y otherwise x
x and y # if x is False then x otherwise y
not x # if x is True then False, otherwise True
```

A boolean is also an int. If boolean values are used in arithmetic operations, their integer values (1 and 0 for True and False) will be used to return an integer result:

```python
True + False == 1 # 1 + 0 == 1
True * True == 1 # 1 * 1 == 1
```
#### Numbers
**`int`: integer number**

*Note*: in older versions of Python, a long type was available and this was distinct from int. The two have been unified.

```python
a = 2
b = 100
c = 123456789
d = 38563846326424324
```

**`float`: floating point number**

precision depends on the implementation and system architecture, for CPython the float datatype corresponds to a C double.

```python
a = 2.0
b = 100.e0
c = 123456789.e1
```

**`complex`: complex numbers**

```python
a = 2 + 1j
b = 100 + 10j
```
The <, <=, > and >= operators will raise a TypeError exception when any operand is a complex number.



#### Strings

`str`: a unicode string. The type of '`hello`'
`bytes`: a byte string. The type of `b'hello'`

#### Sequences and Collections
- ordered sequrnces (string, list, tuple)
- unordered sequences (set, dictionary)

`string`: sequence of characters
```python
A='imSoLonelyAsF'
print(A) #outputs imSoLonelyAsF
```

`reversed()`: reversed order of string in list format
```python
# for string
string = 'AppDividend'
print(list(reversed(string)))

# for tuple
tuple = ('k', 'r', 'u', 'n', 'a', 'l')
print(list(reversed(tuple)))

# for range
range = range(19, 24)
print(list(reversed(range)))

# for list
listA = [19, 21, 46, 29, 6]
print(list(reversed(listA)))
```

`tuple`: An ordered collection of n values of any type (n >= 0).

```python
a = (1, 2, 3)
b = ('a', 1, 'python', (1, 2))
b[2] = 'something else' # returns a TypeError
```

Supports indexing; immutable; hashable if all its members are hashable

> Hashable meaning: {hashable
> An object is hashable if it has a hash value which never changes during its lifetime (it needs a __hash__() method), and can be compared to other objects (it needs an __eq__() method). Hashable objects which compare equal must have the same hash value.
> 
> Hashability makes an object usable as a dictionary key and a set member, because these data structures use the hash value internally.
> 
> All of Python’s immutable built-in objects are hashable; mutable containers (such as lists or dictionaries) are not. Objects which are instances of user-defined classes are hashable by default. They all compare unequal (except with themselves), and their hash value is derived from their id().}

`list`: An ordered collection of n values (n >= 0)
```python
a = [1, 2, 3]
b = ['a', 1, 'python', (1, 2), [1, 2]]
b[2] = 'something else' # allowed
```
Not hashable (); mutable.

`set`: An unordered collection of unique values. Items must be hashable.
```python
a = {1, 2, 'a'}
```

`dict`: An unordered collection of unique key-value pairs; keys must be hashable.
```python
a = {1: 'one', 2: 'two'}
b = {'a': [1, 2, 3], 'b': 'a string'}
```

#### Built-in constants
`True`: The true value of the built-in type bool
`False`: The false value of the built-in type bool
`None`: A singleton object used to signal that a value is absent.
`Ellipsis` or `...` : used in core Python3+ anywhere and limited usage in Python2.7+ as part of array notation, numpy and related packages use this as a 'include everything' reference in arrays.
`NotImplemented`: a singleton used to indicate to Python that a special method doesn't support the specific arguments, and Python will try alternatives if available.

```python
a = None # No value will be assigned. Any valid datatype can be assigned later
```

None doesn't have any natural ordering. Using ordering comparison operators (<, <=, >=, >) isn't supported anymore
and will raise a TypeError.

#### Find type of variables
1. Using `type()` operator
2. Using `isinstance()`

#### Converting between datatypes

'123' is of str type and it can be converted to integer using int function.
```python
a = '123'
b = int(a)
```

Converting from a float string such as '123.456' can be done using float function.
```python
a = '123.456'
b = float(a)
c = int(a) # ValueError: invalid literal for int() with base 10: '123.456'
d = int(b) # 123
```

You can also convert sequence or collection types
```python
a = 'hello'
list(a) # ['h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o']
set(a) # {'o', 'e', 'l', 'h'}
tuple(a) # ('h', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o')
```

#### Explicit string type at definition of literals

With one letter labels just in front of the quotes you can tell what type of string you want to define.
- b'foo bar': results bytes in Python 3, str in Python 2
- u'foo bar': results str in Python 3, unicode in Python 2
- 'foo bar': results str
- r'foo bar': results so called raw string, where escaping special characters is not necessary, everything is taken verbatim as you typed
- normal = 'foo\nbar' # prints foo in 1st line and bar in next line
- escaped = 'foo\\nbar' # foo\nbar 
- raw = r'foo\nbar' # foo\nbar

#### Mutable and Immutable Data Types

An object is called *mutable* if it can be changed. (Eg: ==bytearray==, list, setarray, dictionary)
```python
def f(m):
 m.append(3) # adds a number to the list. This is a mutation.
x = [1, 2]
f(x)
x == [1, 2] # False now, since an item was added to the list
```


An object is called *immutable* if it cannot be changed in any way. (Eg: ==bytes==, tuple, numbers, string, frozenset)

```python
def bar():
 x = (1, 2)
 g(x)
 x == (1, 2) # Will always be True, since no function can change the object (1, 2)
```

