# Lists

- A list is merely an ordered collection of valid Python values. A list can be created by enclosing values, separated by commas, in square brackets. 
- A list can be empty, can contain another list as its element, can contain mixed values

- The elements of a list can be accessed via an index, or numeric representation of their position. Lists in Python are zero-indexed meaning that the first element in the list is at index 0, the second element is at index 1 and so on.

- Lists are mutable, so you can change the values in a list.

- It is possible to add and/or remove elements from a list

- Append object to end of list with `L.append(object)`, returns `None`.

- Add a new element to list at a specific index. `L.insert(index, object)`

- Remove the first occurrence of a value with `L.remove(value), returns None`

- Count length of list <br> `len(L)`

- Get the index in the list of the first item. It will show an error if there is no such item. <br> `L.index("Alice")`

- Reverse the list <br> `a.reverse()`

- count occurrence of any item in list <br> `a.count(1)`

- Remove and return item at index (defaults to the last item) with `L.pop([index])`, returns the item

- We can access elements like this:
```python
for element in my_list:
 print (element)
```

#### Tuples

A tuple is similar to a list except that it is fixed-length and immutable. So the values in the tuple cannot be changed
nor the values be added to or removed from the tuple. Tuples are commonly used for small collections of values
that will not need to change, such as an IP address and port. Tuples are represented with parentheses instead of
square brackets

```python
ip_address = ('10.20.30.40', 8080)
```
The same indexing rules for lists also apply to tuples. Tuples can also be nested and the values can be any valid
Python valid.

A tuple with only one member must be defined (note the comma) this way:
`one_member_tuple = ('Only member',)`

or
`one_member_tuple = 'Only member', # No brackets`

or just using tuple syntax
`one_member_tuple = tuple(['Only member'])`

#### Dictionary

A dictionary in Python is a collection of key-value pairs. The dictionary is surrounded by curly braces. Each pair is
separated by a comma and the key and value are separated by a colon. Here is an example:
```python
state_capitals = {
 'Arkansas': 'Little Rock',
 'Colorado': 'Denver',
 'California': 'Sacramento',
 'Georgia': 'Atlanta'
}
```

To get a value, refer to it by its key:
`ca_capital = state_capitals['California']`

You can also get all of the keys in a dictionary and then iterate over them:
```python
for k in state_capitals.keys():
 print('{} is the capital of {}'.format(state_capitals[k], k))
```

Dictionaries strongly resemble JSON syntax. The native `json` module in the Python standard library can be used to convert between JSON and dictionaries.

#### Set

A `set` is a collection of elements with no repeats and without insertion order but sorted order.  For large groups of data, it is much faster to check whether or not an element is in a `set` than it is to do the same for a `list`.

Defining a set is very similar to defining a dictionary

Or you can build a set using an existing list:
```python
my_list = [1,2,3]
my_set = set(my_list)
```

Check membership of the set using in:
```python
if name in first_names:
 print(name)
```

You can iterate over a set exactly like a list, but remember: the values will be in an arbitrary, implementation-defined order.

#### Defaultdict

Nama kodukura key value andha dictionary la illana namale default value assign panlam (ez😃)

```python
from collections import defaultdict
state={'his':'her','he':'she','me','you'}
state=defaultdict(lambda:'brokeasf')
print(state[mylaif]) #prints 'brokeasf'
```

