### Professional statement outline 

To develop a professional statement that briefly explains who you are and what you are passionate about, follow the steps outlined. 

**Note**: You will need a piece of paper or a blank word processing document to complete this activity

#### Step one
**List two to three strengths that you currently have or are committed to developing**  (e.g., strong written and verbal communication, time management, programming, etc.).
Having an inventory of your strengths can help you create your professional statement. It may also encourage you to focus on skills you want to develop as you progress through the certificate program. 

#### Step two
**List one to two values you have** (e.g., protecting organizations, protecting people, adhering to laws, ensuring equitable access, etc.).
Establishing your values can help you and a prospective employer determine if your goals are aligned. Ensure that you are representing yourself accurately, and be honest about what motivates you.

#### Step three
Ask yourself some **clarifying questions** to determine what to include in your professional statement:
1.	What most interests me about the field of cybersecurity?
2.	Who is the audience for my professional statement (e.g., cybersecurity recruiters, specific organizations, government employers, etc.)?
3.	In what ways can my strengths, values, and interest in cybersecurity support the security goals of various organizations?

_Note: This is just a draft. You should continue to revise and refine your professional statement, throughout the program, until you feel that it’s ready to share with potential employers._



=======================================================================


### Refine your professional statement

Here are some suggestions you are encouraged to consider to help you continuously refine and strengthen your professional statement throughout the program: 

1.	Locate examples of current cybersecurity professionals’ statements. Search for examples on GitHub or professional networking websites or apps. Compare your statement with statements you found online and determine ways you could improve your own statement.  
2.	Use a word processing spelling/grammar check or an online tool of your choice to make sure that your statement is free of errors.
3.	Share your professional statement with trusted friends or colleagues and ask for their feedback. A second opinion is helpful to ensure that you are effectively conveying your ideas.
4.	Research job postings and consider including key terms from the postings in your professional statement. 


======================================================================


### Professional statement exemplar

#### Fictional persona: 

Following is a fictional persona that may represent someone interested in becoming a cybersecurity analyst.

Melodie is a high school graduate and her strongest subjects in school were math and science. She enjoys learning and excelled in school. She likes creating spreadsheets to organize everyday tasks. She also likes analyzing complex tasks. Melodie has a passion for technology and enjoys helping others. She is interested in the field of security but has no previous experience. She wants an entry-level cybersecurity position that will utilize her drive and thirst for knowledge. She believes the Google Cybersecurity Certificate will make her a better candidate and will help her develop the professional skills she lacks.

#### Fictional persona’s draft professional statement:

My name is Melodie. I am driven and passionate about safeguarding people’s security, including their financial well being. I enjoy working with technology and analyzing and solving complex problems. 
