### Attack types

#### Password attack:
-  attempt to access password-secured devices, systems, networks, or data
- Password attacks fall under the communication and network security domain. 
- eg
  - Brute force
  - Rainbow table

#### Social engineering attack:
- manipulation technique that exploits human error to gain private information, access, or valuables
- Social engineering attacks are related to the security and risk management domain.
- types
  - Phishing
  - Smishing
  - Vishing
  - Spear phishing
  - Whaling
  - Social media phishing
  - Business Email Compromise (BEC)
  - Watering hole attack
  - USB (Universal Serial Bus) baiting
  - Physical social engineering

#### Physical attack:
- security incident that affects not only digital but also physical environments where the incident is deployed
- Physical attacks fall under the asset security domain
- eg
  - Malicious USB cable
  - Malicious flash drive
  - Card cloning and skimming

#### Adversarial artificial intelligence
- a technique that manipulates artificial intelligence and machine learning technology to conduct attacks more efficiently.
- Adversarial artificial intelligence falls under both the communication and network security and the identity and access management domains.

#### Supply-chain attack:
- targets systems, applications, hardware, and/or software to locate a vulnerability where malware can be deployed
- Because every item sold undergoes a process that involves third parties, this means that the security breach can occur at any point in the supply chain.
- These attacks are costly because they can affect multiple organizations and the individuals who work for them.
- It can fall under several domains, including but not limited to the security and risk management, security architecture and engineering, and security operations domains.

#### Cryptographic attack:
- affects secure forms of communication between a sender and intended recipient
- Cryptographic attacks fall under the communication and network security domain. 
- eg
  - Birthday
  - Collision
  - Downgrade
